README.md, before:

# FitAnalytics WebWidget Integration in iOS (Objective-C)

## Overview

The WebWidget SDK allows integrating the Fit Analytics Size Advisor widget into your own iOS app.

As a first step, we suggest that you familiarize yourself with the Fit Analytics web-based Size Advisor service by:  
1. Reading through the Fit Analytics website and trying out a sample product - https://www.fitanalytics.com/  
2. Reading through the Fit Analytics web developers guide - http://developers.fitanalytics.com/documentation  

The integration method currently supported by this SDK is based on loading HTML/JS-based widget code in a separate UIWebView instance and establishing communication between the host app and the embedded web widget.  

The SDK introduces a layer that imitates a web-based (JavaScript) integration of the Fit Analytics widget by:  
1. Exporting the **FitAWebWidget** class, which serves as a main widget controller.   
2. Creating and initializing the widget in a provided web view instance.  
3. Exposing several methods that allow controlling the widget.  
4. Defining the **FITAWebWidgetHandler** interface, which allows registering various callbacks (by implementing them as interface methods). These callbacks are invoked by the widget controller through various events (e.g. when a user closes the widget, when the widget displays a recommendation,   etc.).  

Optionally, you can also include the purchase reporting for the order confirmantion page/view.

---

## Installation (using Cocoapods)

**Prerequisities:** 
1. XCode 7 or higher  
2. iOS 8 or higher  

**Step 1.** Make sure you already have cocoapods installed in your system. Otherwise you can follow the steps in cocoapods documentation to install
https://cocoapods.org/

**Step 2.** To initialize the pod in your project use `pod init` command to create a Podfile with smart defaults.

**Step 3.** Now you can install the dependencies in your project by using `pod install` command.

**Step 4.** Make sure you always open **Xcode Workspace** instead of Xcode Project. You can do it by
using **open YourApp.xcworkspace** command in terminal.

---

## Widget integration Procedure

We're presuming a simple app with the single main ViewController class.

Import the **FitAWebWidget.h** and the **FITAWebWidgetHandler.h** header file into your **ViewController.m**
 
```objc
#import "FITAWebWidget.h"
#import “FITAWebWidgetHandler.h"
```

The view controller class implements the **FITAWebWidgetHandler** interface, so that the widget callback can be implemented directly on it.

```objc
@interface ViewController ()<FITAWebWidgetHandler>
```

Add a property for storing the reference to the widget.

```objc
@property (nonatomic, strong) FITAWebWidget *widget;
```

Add a property for the WebView reference. This is the UIWebView instance that will contain the load widget container page.

```objc
@property (weak, nonatomic) IBOutlet UIWebView *webView;
```

Initialize the widget controller with the UIWebView instance and assign self as the callback handler.

```objc
self.widget = [[FITAWebWidget alloc] initWithWebView:self.webView handler:self];
```

### WKWebView support

Alternatively, you can initialize the widget controller with a WKWebView instance. In such case, the integration should work exactly the same way as with UIWebView.

```objc
self.widget = [[FITAWebWidget alloc] initWithWKWebView:self.wkWebView handler:self];
```

## Methods

**`- (BOOL)load`**

Begin loading the HTML widget container page.

```objc
[self.widget load];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (BOOL)create:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Create and (optionally) initialize it with product serial and other options.

Create a widget instance inside the container page by passing the `productSerial` and `options`. Options can be `nil` or a dictionary of various options arguments. Important supported options are listed [here](#configurable-widget-options).

This method should be called only after the **WebWidgetDidBecomeReady** callback has been called (or inside the callback) and will return a `true` when the widget was successfully created.

```objc
[self.widget create:@"example-123456" options:@{ "sizes": @[ @"S", @"XL" ] }];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void)open`**

Show the actual widget. It may trigger loading additional resources over network, and will show the widget only after all assets have been loaded. When the opening is finished, the **WebWidgetDidOpen** callback will be called on the callback handler.

```objc
[self.widget open];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void)openWithOptions:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Configure the widget with new productSerial and/or options and show it. See `open` above for more details.

```objc
[self.widget open:@"example-123456" options:@{ "sizes": @[ @"S", @"XL" ] ];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void) close`**

Close the widget and remove the widget markup. Will trigger the **webWidgetDidClose** callback when it finishes.

```objc
[self.widget close];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void) recommend`**

Request a recommendation. The recommended size and additional details will be returned as arguments to the **WebWidgetDidRecommend** callback.

```objc
[self.widget recommend];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void) recommendWithOptions:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Configure the widget with the new productSerial and/or widget options and request a recommendation. See `recommend` above for more details.

```objc
[self.widget recommend:@"example-123456" options:nil];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void)reconfigure:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Configure the widget with the new productSerial and/or widget options. If the `productSerial` argument is non-nil and is different from the last provided product serial, this will trigger a request for the product information. After the new product info is loaded, the **webWidgetDidLoadProduct** will be called. If the product serial is invalid or the product isn't supported by Fit Analytics, the **webWidgetDidFailLoadingProduct** will be called.

```objc
[self.widget reconfigure:@"example-123456" options:nil];

// OR

[self.widget reconfigure:nil options:@{ "sizes": @[ @"XL" ] ];
```

Reconfigure the widget with a new product serial and/or widget options object.

## Callbacks

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidBecomeReady:(FITAWebWidget *)widget;
```

This method will be called when widget container inside the WebView has successfully loaded and is ready to accept commands.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetInitialized:(FITAWebWidget *)widget;
```

This method will be called when widget container inside the WebView has successfully loaded.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidFailLoading:(FITAWebWidget *)widget withError:(NSError *)error;
```

This method will be called when widget inside the WebView has failed to load or initialize for some reason.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidLoadProduct:(FITAWebWidget *)widget productId:(NSString *)productId details:(NSDictionary *)details;
```

This method will be called when the widget has successfully loaded the product info. A successful load means that the product is supported by Fit Analytics and the widget should be able to provide a size recommendation for it.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidFailLoadingProduct:(FITAWebWidget *)widget productId:(NSString *)productId details:(NSDictionary *)details;
```

This method will be called when widget failed to load the product info or the product is not supported.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidOpen:(FITAWebWidget *)widget productId:(NSString *)productId;
```

This method will be called when the widget has successfully opened after the `open` method call.

## Configurable widget options

`sizes` ..  an array of in-stock sizes for the current product

`manufacturedSizes` .. a dictionary of all manfactured sizes for the current product, including their in/out-of-stock status

`userId` .. the shop's user id, in case the user is logged in

`shopCountry` .. the ISO code of the shop's country (e.g. US, DE, FR, GB, etc.)

`language` .. the language mutation of the shop (e.g. en, de, fr, es, it, etc.)

For the complete list of available widget options and their description, please see https://developers.fitanalytics.com/documentation#list-callbacks-parameters

---

## Purchase reporting

Purchase reporting usually means that when the user receives a confirmation of a successful purchases, namely, the user sees the Order Confirmation Page (a.k.a OCP or checkout page), the app will report all items in the order to Fit Analytics. The reporting is done by sending a simple HTTP request.

The usual report is a collection of attributes such as the order ID, the product serial for each purchased item, purchased size, price, currency, etc.

The most common attributes are:

* **orderId** .. (required) unique identifier of the order
* **userId** .. if the user is registered customer, their shop-specific ID
* **productSerial** .. serial number/ID of the product (independent of purchased size!); it should match with the `productSerial` that was used for PDP size advisor.
* **shopArticleCode** .. (optional) the size-specific identifier
* **purchasedSize** .. the size code of the purchased size
* **shopCountry** .. if the shop has country-specific versions, specify it via this attribute
* **language** .. if your shop has language-specific versions, you can specify the language in which the purchase was made (which helps identify the user's sizing system)

For the complete list of possible reported fields and their description, please see https://developers.fitanalytics.com/documentation#sales-data-exchange

### Usage

Import the **FITAPurchaseReport.h** and the **FITAPurchaseReporter.h** header file.
 
```objc
#import "FITAPurchaseReport.h"
#import "FITAPurchaseReporter.h"
```

Create a new instance of the purchase reporter (**FITAPurchaseReporter**).

```objc
FITAPurchaseReporter *reporter = [[FITAPurchaseReporter alloc] init];
```

For each line item present in the customer's order, create a new instance of **FITAPurchaseReport** and send it via reporter.

```objc
FITAPurchaseReport *report = [[FITAPurchaseReport alloc] init];

report.orderId = @"0034";
report.userId = @"003242A32A";
report.productSerial = @"test-55322214";
report.purchasedSize = @"XXL";
// add additional attributes, such as shopCountry, lanugage etc. here.

[reporter sendReport:report];
```

Alternatively, you can initialize the report instance with a dictionary. That can be useful for setting shared defaults, for example.

```objc

NSDictionary *reportDefaults = @{
  @"orderId": @"0034",
  @"userId": @"003242A32A"
};

FITAPurchaseReporter *report = [[FITAPurchaseReport alloc] initWithDictionary:reportDefaults];

report.productSerial = @"test-55322214";
report.purchasedSize = @"XXL";

[reporter sendReport:report];
```

If you wish to wait until reporting has finished, you can pass a callback function.

```objc
[reporter sendReport:report done:^(NSError *error) {
  if (error != nil)
    NSLog("ERROR: %@", error);
  else
    NSLog("SUCCESS");
}]
```

Commit message:

Update README.txt, instruction for universal binary framework

README.md, after:

# FitAnalytics WebWidget Integration in iOS (Objective-C)

## Overview

The WebWidget SDK allows integrating the Fit Analytics Size Advisor widget into your own iOS app.

As a first step, we suggest that you familiarize yourself with the Fit Analytics web-based Size Advisor service by:  
1. Reading through the Fit Analytics website and trying out a sample product - https://www.fitanalytics.com/  
2. Reading through the Fit Analytics web developers guide - http://developers.fitanalytics.com/documentation  

The integration method currently supported by this SDK is based on loading HTML/JS-based widget code in a separate UIWebView instance and establishing communication between the host app and the embedded web widget.  

The SDK introduces a layer that imitates a web-based (JavaScript) integration of the Fit Analytics widget by:  
1. Exporting the **FitAWebWidget** class, which serves as a main widget controller.   
2. Creating and initializing the widget in a provided web view instance.  
3. Exposing several methods that allow controlling the widget.  
4. Defining the **FITAWebWidgetHandler** interface, which allows registering various callbacks (by implementing them as interface methods). These callbacks are invoked by the widget controller through various events (e.g. when a user closes the widget, when the widget displays a recommendation,   etc.).  

Optionally, you can also include the purchase reporting for the order confirmantion page/view.

---

## Installation (using Cocoapods)

**Prerequisities:** 
1. XCode 7 or higher  
2. iOS 8 or higher  

**Step 1.** Make sure you already have cocoapods installed in your system. Otherwise you can follow the steps in cocoapods documentation to install
https://cocoapods.org/

**Step 2.** To initialize the pod in your project use `pod init` command to create a Podfile with smart defaults.

**Step 3.** Now you can install the dependencies in your project by using `pod install` command.

**Step 4.** Make sure you always open **Xcode Workspace** instead of Xcode Project. You can do it by
using **open YourApp.xcworkspace** command in terminal.

## Installation (using the universal binary framework)

Alternatively you can use the pre-built universal binary framework. It's available for download with each release (since v0.4.2). 

It comes in two build flavors: 
   1) **all** - which includes binary code for both devices (arm7x, arm64) and simulators (i386, x86_64)
   2) **device_only** - which includes just device-specific binaries (arm7x, arm64). The device-specific flavor is meant for final builds that are meant to be released in App store (which disallows the simulator binary code in apps).

You can find the minimal example project that uses the binary framework in **UniversalFramework/Framework Example** subdirectory of the repository.

**Step 1.** Download the framework package from the release page:

Complete build: [FitAnalytics_WebWidget.framework-v0.4.2-all.tar.gz](https://github.com/UPcload/FitAnalytics-WebWidget-iOS/releases/download/untagged-dfcdcc63955b053cc312/FitAnalytics_WebWidget.framework-v0.4.2-all.tar.gz)

Device-only build: [FitAnalytics_WebWidget.framework-v0.4.2-device_only.tar.gz](https://github.com/UPcload/FitAnalytics-WebWidget-iOS/releases/download/untagged-dfcdcc63955b053cc312/FitAnalytics_WebWidget.framework-v0.4.2-device_only.tar.gz)

**Step 2.** Unpack the binary framework and add to the XCode project  via "Add files ..." context menu.

**Step 3.** When including header files (see below) add them in the form
```objc
#import <FitAnalytics_WebWidget/FITAWebWidget.h>
...
```
instead of 
```objc
#import "FITAWebWidget.h"
...
```
---

## Widget integration Procedure

We're presuming a simple app with the single main ViewController class.

Import the **FitAWebWidget.h** and the **FITAWebWidgetHandler.h** header file into your **ViewController.m**
 
```objc
#import "FITAWebWidget.h"
#import “FITAWebWidgetHandler.h"
```

The view controller class implements the **FITAWebWidgetHandler** interface, so that the widget callback can be implemented directly on it.

```objc
@interface ViewController ()<FITAWebWidgetHandler>
```

Add a property for storing the reference to the widget.

```objc
@property (nonatomic, strong) FITAWebWidget *widget;
```

Add a property for the WebView reference. This is the UIWebView instance that will contain the load widget container page.

```objc
@property (weak, nonatomic) IBOutlet UIWebView *webView;
```

Initialize the widget controller with the UIWebView instance and assign self as the callback handler.

```objc
self.widget = [[FITAWebWidget alloc] initWithWebView:self.webView handler:self];
```

### WKWebView support

Alternatively, you can initialize the widget controller with a WKWebView instance. In such case, the integration should work exactly the same way as with UIWebView.

```objc
self.widget = [[FITAWebWidget alloc] initWithWKWebView:self.wkWebView handler:self];
```

## Methods

**`- (BOOL)load`**

Begin loading the HTML widget container page.

```objc
[self.widget load];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (BOOL)create:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Create and (optionally) initialize it with product serial and other options.

Create a widget instance inside the container page by passing the `productSerial` and `options`. Options can be `nil` or a dictionary of various options arguments. Important supported options are listed [here](#configurable-widget-options).

This method should be called only after the **WebWidgetDidBecomeReady** callback has been called (or inside the callback) and will return a `true` when the widget was successfully created.

```objc
[self.widget create:@"example-123456" options:@{ "sizes": @[ @"S", @"XL" ] }];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void)open`**

Show the actual widget. It may trigger loading additional resources over network, and will show the widget only after all assets have been loaded. When the opening is finished, the **WebWidgetDidOpen** callback will be called on the callback handler.

```objc
[self.widget open];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void)openWithOptions:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Configure the widget with new productSerial and/or options and show it. See `open` above for more details.

```objc
[self.widget open:@"example-123456" options:@{ "sizes": @[ @"S", @"XL" ] ];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void) close`**

Close the widget and remove the widget markup. Will trigger the **webWidgetDidClose** callback when it finishes.

```objc
[self.widget close];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void) recommend`**

Request a recommendation. The recommended size and additional details will be returned as arguments to the **WebWidgetDidRecommend** callback.

```objc
[self.widget recommend];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void) recommendWithOptions:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Configure the widget with the new productSerial and/or widget options and request a recommendation. See `recommend` above for more details.

```objc
[self.widget recommend:@"example-123456" options:nil];
```

&nbsp;

**`- (void)reconfigure:productSerial options:NSDictionary`**

Configure the widget with the new productSerial and/or widget options. If the `productSerial` argument is non-nil and is different from the last provided product serial, this will trigger a request for the product information. After the new product info is loaded, the **webWidgetDidLoadProduct** will be called. If the product serial is invalid or the product isn't supported by Fit Analytics, the **webWidgetDidFailLoadingProduct** will be called.

```objc
[self.widget reconfigure:@"example-123456" options:nil];

// OR

[self.widget reconfigure:nil options:@{ "sizes": @[ @"XL" ] ];
```

Reconfigure the widget with a new product serial and/or widget options object.

## Callbacks

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidBecomeReady:(FITAWebWidget *)widget;
```

This method will be called when widget container inside the WebView has successfully loaded and is ready to accept commands.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetInitialized:(FITAWebWidget *)widget;
```

This method will be called when widget container inside the WebView has successfully loaded.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidFailLoading:(FITAWebWidget *)widget withError:(NSError *)error;
```

This method will be called when widget inside the WebView has failed to load or initialize for some reason.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidLoadProduct:(FITAWebWidget *)widget productId:(NSString *)productId details:(NSDictionary *)details;
```

This method will be called when the widget has successfully loaded the product info. A successful load means that the product is supported by Fit Analytics and the widget should be able to provide a size recommendation for it.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidFailLoadingProduct:(FITAWebWidget *)widget productId:(NSString *)productId details:(NSDictionary *)details;
```

This method will be called when widget failed to load the product info or the product is not supported.

&nbsp;

```objc
- (void)webWidgetDidOpen:(FITAWebWidget *)widget productId:(NSString *)productId;
```

This method will be called when the widget has successfully opened after the `open` method call.

## Configurable widget options

`sizes` ..  an array of in-stock sizes for the current product

`manufacturedSizes` .. a dictionary of all manfactured sizes for the current product, including their in/out-of-stock status

`userId` .. the shop's user id, in case the user is logged in

`shopCountry` .. the ISO code of the shop's country (e.g. US, DE, FR, GB, etc.)

`language` .. the language mutation of the shop (e.g. en, de, fr, es, it, etc.)

For the complete list of available widget options and their description, please see https://developers.fitanalytics.com/documentation#list-callbacks-parameters

---

## Purchase reporting

Purchase reporting usually means that when the user receives a confirmation of a successful purchases, namely, the user sees the Order Confirmation Page (a.k.a OCP or checkout page), the app will report all items in the order to Fit Analytics. The reporting is done by sending a simple HTTP request.

The usual report is a collection of attributes such as the order ID, the product serial for each purchased item, purchased size, price, currency, etc.

The most common attributes are:

* **orderId** .. (required) unique identifier of the order
* **userId** .. if the user is registered customer, their shop-specific ID
* **productSerial** .. serial number/ID of the product (independent of purchased size!); it should match with the `productSerial` that was used for PDP size advisor.
* **shopArticleCode** .. (optional) the size-specific identifier
* **purchasedSize** .. the size code of the purchased size
* **shopCountry** .. if the shop has country-specific versions, specify it via this attribute
* **language** .. if your shop has language-specific versions, you can specify the language in which the purchase was made (which helps identify the user's sizing system)

For the complete list of possible reported fields and their description, please see https://developers.fitanalytics.com/documentation#sales-data-exchange

### Usage

Import the **FITAPurchaseReport.h** and the **FITAPurchaseReporter.h** header file.
 
```objc
#import "FITAPurchaseReport.h"
#import "FITAPurchaseReporter.h"
```

Create a new instance of the purchase reporter (**FITAPurchaseReporter**).

```objc
FITAPurchaseReporter *reporter = [[FITAPurchaseReporter alloc] init];
```

For each line item present in the customer's order, create a new instance of **FITAPurchaseReport** and send it via reporter.

```objc
FITAPurchaseReport *report = [[FITAPurchaseReport alloc] init];

report.orderId = @"0034";
report.userId = @"003242A32A";
report.productSerial = @"test-55322214";
report.purchasedSize = @"XXL";
// add additional attributes, such as shopCountry, lanugage etc. here.

[reporter sendReport:report];
```

Alternatively, you can initialize the report instance with a dictionary. That can be useful for setting shared defaults, for example.

```objc

NSDictionary *reportDefaults = @{
  @"orderId": @"0034",
  @"userId": @"003242A32A"
};

FITAPurchaseReporter *report = [[FITAPurchaseReport alloc] initWithDictionary:reportDefaults];

report.productSerial = @"test-55322214";
report.purchasedSize = @"XXL";

[reporter sendReport:report];
```

If you wish to wait until reporting has finished, you can pass a callback function.

```objc
[reporter sendReport:report done:^(NSError *error) {
  if (error != nil)
    NSLog("ERROR: %@", error);
  else
    NSLog("SUCCESS");
}]
```
